docs: 🏗️ add design of extract metadata CLI (#1763)
seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout: docs/design/interface/cli.qmd

---
title: "Command line interface"
---

This document describes the command-line interface (CLI) as a development
reference and to track implementation status.

{{< include /docs/includes/_design-status.qmd >}}

## {{< var wip >}} `seedcase-sprout`

`seedcase-sprout` has the following signature:

```bash {filename="Terminal"}
seedcase-sprout <COMMAND> [PARAMETERS]
```

When used on its own, `seedcase-sprout` shows the help message as a shorthand
for `--help`:

```bash {filename="Terminal"}
seedcase-sprout
```

::: callout-note
As a convenience, we provide the command `sprout` as a shorthand for
`seedcase-sprout`. It can be used in place of `seedcase-sprout` in all
instances.
:::

`seedcase-sprout` has several commands: `extract-metadata`, `create-template`,
`build-resources`, `build-metadata`, and `build` that runs the other `build-*`
commands. These commands are described below.

### {{< var wip >}} `extract-metadata`

The `extract-metadata` command extracts metadata from a Parquet file in the

> `staging/` directory and outputs a Python script with `ResourceProperties()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`staging/` directory and outputs a Python script with the `ResourceProperties()`
```

> dataclass filled in with the extracted metadata. It has the signature:

Reviewer 2: I guess it technically could be in any directory if we want to use the file *path*, but probably *should* be in the `staging/` directory.

```suggestion
The `extract-metadata` command extracts metadata from a Parquet file
and outputs a Python script with the `ResourceProperties()`
dataclass filled in with the extracted metadata. It is meant to be used with Parquet files in the `staging/` directory that have the same schema (columns and data types) as the final resource. It has the signature:
```

```bash {filename="Terminal"}

> seedcase-sprout extract-metadata [PARQUET-FILE] --output/-o [OUTPUT-FILE]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
seedcase-sprout extract-metadata [PARQUET-PATH] --output/-o [OUTPUT-PATH]
```

```

```{mermaid}
%%| label: fig-cli-extract-metadata-flow
%%| fig-cap: "The flow of input and output through the CLI `extract-metadata` command."
%%| fig-alt: >-
%%|   Diagram showing the flow of input and output through the CLI

> %%|   `extract-metadata` command. The user provides the source of the Parquet

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
%%|   `extract-metadata` command. The user provides the path to the Parquet
```

> %%|   file and the output file, which are used by the `extract-metadata` command

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
%%|   file and the output file, which are used
```

> %%|   to generate the Python script with extracted metadata.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
%%|   to generate a Python script with extracted metadata.
```

flowchart LR

>     parquet[/"Parquet file<br>[PARQUET-FILE]"/]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    parquet[/"Parquet path<br>[PARQUET-PATH]"/]
```

>     output_opt["Output file<br>[--output]"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    output_opt["Output path<br>[--output]"]
```
